Expand README (#420)
NREL/COMPASS: README.rst

The latest published ordinance datasets are available here:

- Solar: https://data.openei.org/submissions/8519
- Wind: https://data.openei.org/submissions/8602

The National Laboratories of the Rockies (NLR) typically runs the INFRA-COMPASS pipeline
annually and publishes refreshed datasets to OpenEI.

If the technology or jurisdictions you need aren't in a published release — or you don't
want to wait for the next annual refresh — you can **run INFRA-COMPASS yourself**
on just the jurisdictions and technologies you care about.

**You bring your own LLM API key.** INFRA-COMPASS is built around OpenAI
(``client_type: "openai"``) and Azure OpenAI (``client_type: "azure"``). Set
``OPENAI_API_KEY`` (or the ``AZURE_OPENAI_*`` trio) in your environment before starting a
run. Support for other LLM providers is under consideration.

Which local codes and ordinances does INFRA-COMPASS support?
============================================================
INFRA-COMPASS supports several extraction plugins (the value you set as ``tech`` in the
input config). Each plugin defines its own search queries, keyword heuristics, and field
set. Example fields extracted are listed below:

> 1. **Solar** (``tech: "solar"``) — utility-scale solar siting ordinances. Examples:

Reviewer: @rajeee @ppinchuk , what about reduce this list to just short single line items and move the expanded description to the documentation?

The full documentation is actually missing such information (did I miss anything?). I would suggest a section on what COMPASS can do before the installation instructions, that would contain this list here and could even be expanded in the future. And here, in the README, I would keep just keywords and a link directly to the section in the documentation.

My thoughts here are, the documentation which should be complete and without size limitation, seems to be missing this information, and the README that should be short so people don't give up reading before the end, might have more details than needed.

What do you both think about that?

Reviewer 2: Yes, my preference would be to move this PR and have a separate PR to make this change

and ordinances pertaining to energy infrastructure.

Which local codes and ordinances does COMPASS support?
======================================================

> COMPASS currently has five extraction plugins (the value you set as ``tech`` in the input

Reviewer 2: Let's not give an exact quantity since this is growing rapidly and the README will quickly become out of date. I think it might be better to say "COMPASS supports several extraction plugins..."

> COMPASS currently has five extraction plugins (the value you set as ``tech`` in the input

Reviewer 2: Let's use the formal "INFRA-COMAPSS" name throughout the README

config). Each plugin defines its own search queries, keyword heuristics, and field set.
Example fields extracted are listed below:

1. **Solar** (``tech: "solar"``) — utility-scale solar siting ordinances. The most polished

>    plugin and the one used by the quickstart demo. Examples: setbacks (from structures,

Reviewer 2: I don't think I would agree that it's the most polished. If anything that would be the wind plugin. But maybe let's not emphasize any comparison between plugins at all for now

   property lines, roads, railroads, transmission, water, conservation lands), maximum
   structure height, minimum/maximum lot size, maximum project size, panel spacing, land-use
   density, land coverage, noise, glare, visual impact, fencing, signage, screening,
   decommissioning, repowering, prohibitions, plus permitted-use district lists.

2. **Wind** (``tech: "wind"``) — utility-scale wind siting ordinances. Examples: setbacks
   (same feature set as solar), maximum turbine height, minimum/maximum lot size, maximum

>    project size, separation from other WECS, shadow flicker, tower density, blade clearance,

Reviewer 2: Yea, as long as we are listing out the ordinances, we may as well address this.

   noise, color, lighting, decommissioning, repowering, climbing prevention, signage, visual
   impact, prohibitions.

3. **Small wind** (``tech: "small wind"``) — distributed / residential-scale wind ordinances.
   Examples: setbacks (extended to also include unoccupied structures), maximum turbine
   height, minimum/maximum lot size, rated capacity, blade clearance, tower density, shadow
   flicker, noise, color, lighting, decommissioning, climbing prevention, signage,
   prohibitions, permitting fees.

4. **Geothermal heat pumps** (``tech: "ghp"``) — GHP / ground-source heat-pump local codes.
   Examples: setbacks from driveways, property lines, yards, private/public water, building

>    foundations, wastewater, water/sewer lines, animal enclosures, roads, ROW,

Reviewer 2: There are actually several more plugins worth mentioning here that are in the works. We should add "Geothermal Electricity", "Transmission Lines", "Natural Gas", and "Data Centers" all with a "Coming Soon" description (e.g. `**Geothermal Electricity** (``tech: "geothermal"``) - Coming Soon`).

Also, let's adopt this order:

1. Geothermal Electricity
2. Geothermal Heat Pumps
3. Transmission Lines
4. Data Centers
5. Natural Gas
6. Texas Water Rights
7. Solar
8. Wind
9. Small Wind

Author: Shouldn't we put available plugins before the coming soon plugins?

   above/below-ground fuel, subsurface drains, wetlands, pools, hazardous materials;
   minimum/maximum well depth, noise, well/geothermal/GHP definitions, licensed-driller and
   certification requirements, screening, permits, inspections, decommissioning,
   prohibitions.

5. **Texas water rights** (``tech: "tx water rights"``) — multi-document extraction tailored
   to TX water-rights filings. Examples: permit requirements, extraction requirements, well
   spacing, drilling window, metering devices, district/well drought-management plans,
   plugging requirements, external-transfer requirements, production reporting, production
   cost, setbacks, redrilling, plus daily/monthly/annual withdrawal limits.

In addition, COMPASS supports a **one-shot, schema-driven plugin** for arbitrary ordinance

> types: provide a JSON schema for the fields you want and COMPASS will use OpenAI structured

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
types: provide a JSON schema for the fields you want and COMPASS will use LLM structured
```

outputs to do a single-call extraction without writing decision trees. See the
`one-shot schema extraction example
<https://github.com/NatLabRockies/COMPASS/tree/main/examples/one_shot_schema_extraction>`_
for a walkthrough.

How does COMPASS find the codes and ordinances?
================================================
A *jurisdiction* in COMPASS is the place that issues the ordinance — typically a U.S. county

> (or equivalent) plus its state, e.g. "Boulder County, Colorado." Each run is driven by a CSV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(or equivalent), e.g. "Boulder County, Colorado." Each run is driven by a CSV
```

of jurisdictions you want covered.

> COMPASS finds source documents on the open web using **four-step retrieval** per jurisdiction:

Reviewer 2: This is not quite right. I think a more correct phrasing is 

```suggestion
COMPASS can handle source documents in four different ways:
```

> 1. **Known local docs** — any documents you pre-stage on disk for that jurisdiction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **Known local docs** — any documents you already have on hand jurisdiction.
```

> 2. **Known URLs** — direct links you've supplied in the jurisdiction config.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **Known URLs** — links containing documents from which you want to pull data.
```

3. **Targeted document search** — plugin-defined queries that look for the **ordinance
   document itself** (e.g. ``"{jurisdiction} solar ordinance"``). The top hits are
   downloaded directly. Best for ordinances that are well-indexed by search engines as

>    standalone PDFs or pages.

Reviewer 2: We can probably cut some of this down:

```suggestion
3. **Targeted document search** — plugin-defined queries that look for the **ordinance
   document itself** . Best for ordinances that are well-indexed by search engines as
   standalone PDFs or pages.
```

4. **Jurisdiction-website crawl** — for ordinances buried inside a county or municipal
   website. COMPASS first runs a *different* search (e.g. ``"{jurisdiction} website"``) to
   find the jurisdiction's official home page, asks an LLM to confirm the site really
   belongs to that jurisdiction, then does a BFS, keyword-prioritized crawl of that one

>    site looking for ordinance pages.

Reviewer 2: I think this is TMI for a README. We can just say "COMPASS searches the jurisdiction website for relevant documents"

**You bring your own LLM API key.** COMPASS is built around OpenAI (``client_type: "openai"``)
and Azure OpenAI (``client_type: "azure"``). Set ``OPENAI_API_KEY`` (or the
``AZURE_OPENAI_*`` trio) in your environment before starting a run. Anthropic support is

> available as an optional extra (``pip install infra-compass[anthropic]``).

Reviewer 2: Anthropic support is not functional yet. Let's remove this for now.

Maybe instead we can add that support for other LLM providers is under consideration.

   any LLM call.
2. **Legal-text validation** — an LLM classifies each surviving section as legally-binding
   regulation or not, with surrounding context for borderline cases.
3. **Decision-tree prompting** — rather than asking the LLM to fill out a whole row of values
   in one mega-prompt, COMPASS extracts each value by walking a small decision tree of
   focused yes/no questions. For a setback value, that might look like: "Does this text
   mention a setback from property lines for utility-scale solar?" → if yes, "Is the value
   given as a fixed distance, a multiple of system height, or relative to another feature?"
   → "What are the units?" → "What is the numeric value?" Each answer narrows the next
   question, and the conversation history carries forward so later prompts know what was
   already decided. This breaks an ambiguous extraction task into a sequence of unambiguous
   ones — which is what keeps structured output accurate even on messy ordinance language.
4. **Hallucination guardrail** — cleaned text is compared back to the original; if too much
   has been invented or paraphrased away, COMPASS retries and ultimately drops the document

>    rather than recording a fabricated value.

Reviewer 2: This should come before the decision tree prompting and should include the fact that the "cleaned text" comes from a step where we reduce the full ordinance down to only the relevant text for extraction

5. **Structured parsing** — extracted values are assembled into a tidy per-jurisdiction CSV
   row (one row of setbacks, height limits, lot sizes, and the rest), then merged across all
   jurisdictions into a single output database at the end of the run. Each row records the
   **source URL** of the document it came from, so any extracted value can be traced back to
   the original ordinance text and independently verified.

Jurisdictions are processed concurrently while respecting your API provider's rate limits,
with live cost tracking on a progress bar.

Where is the data stored and how is it maintained?
===================================================

> The latest published ordinance datasets for solar and wind are available here:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The latest published ordinance datasets are available here:
```
